# Project 5 Open Classrooms Application Developer - PHP/Symfony

## Required tools and versions

I used PHP 7.4.30, because it is the version I use in a company setting.

## Installation

You do NOT need to use the composer install command. composer.json and composer.lock are only there to satisfy
symfony insight requirements.

Clone the files on your computer.
Create an .env file at the root folder of your project.
The .env file should look like this:

SECRET=thesecretstringyouchose
HOST=localhost
USER=usernameyouchose
PASSWORD=passwordyouchose
DBNAME=blogpost

Use the sql file (the name is blogpot.sql)to create your database placeholder. The default name above is blogpost because the database
generated by the sql file is blogpost. If you want to change the name for the database, you will have to edit the name of the database in the blogpost.sql file before generating the database. You can then edit the .env DBNAME to your liking.

You need a sql instance running. For instance, you can have MYSQL Workbench running on port 3306.

## Start the application

Go to your p5myblog folder with your terminal, then enter the following command:
php -S localhost:4000 -t src
The website will be available at the following adress: <http://localhost:4000/index.php>
Note that you can select any port you want as long as it isn't the same as the database instance.

## Granting Administrator privileges

A new user is created through the website interface. However, if you want to grant the user admin privileges,
it must be done in the user table in the database. This is done for security purposes.
To grant a user admin priveleges, set the roles value to <'ROLE_ADMIN','ROLE_USER'>

## libraries

jquery
tinymce
